Are we back on?
I'm guessing this was probably about midway in
that first semester because we were still there in
dorm 12. It wasn't the second semester. So
we determined that the best way to avoid waking
them up, our plan was to fill up a couple of balloons
with water. and we had run some tests to make sure
this technique would work.
You fill the balloon with water and you put warm
water that's as close to body temperature as you
can get it so that cold or hot wouldn't initially
wake them up if they rolled over and touched the
balloon before it went off. In order to fuse the
balloon,
take the end of it where you filled it and you twist
it and twist it and twist it and turn it around so it
holds against itself but you don't knot it. And we
learned that that will give you about a 10 or 15
minute fuse before the water pressure gradually
unwinds that thing and then it starts to leak and
that's going off. It doesn't explode or anything,
it just starts to leak. That gives you some escape
time. Nobody ever locked their rooms. In fact, a
lot of times, especially in warm weather, the
doors were either fully open or cracked open after
guys went to bed. Maybe the windows opened to get
some draft and some breeze through the rooms. This
was pre-air conditioning days and so then once you
get out you've got to secure the room where the guys
can't if they do catch you or if you happen to wake
them up so you got a little head start in case
there's a chase and so you take a what we call a Jody
stick made out of the end of a coke case And where the
handle is on the end of that coat case, you cut a
little notch in there that's big enough to fit over
the doorknob handle. And you put that notch over
the handle until the handle is in the center of the
hand grip and then slide it to that one side. And
from the outside, and there's no way anybody can
get the door open until somebody comes and removes
the Jody stick. So that was going to be our escape
mechanism. And so we pulled it off, sneaked in, and
of course our hearts were racing like 90 miles an
hour as you slip into the room and you lay the water
balloons very gently on the edge of the bed and then
roll it into where it won't roll off. One on the top
bunk, one on the bottom bunk, and we eased back out,
closed the door, and then put the stick on it. And we
did it stealthily enough that we were back in our
room, right across the hall, and one of the reasons
we were chosen, we kind of volunteered, but we were
chosen to do this was because we didn't think that
the psychological warfare that they would think
that guys the closest to them would dare try
something like this. And it wasn't necessarily as
much for us as it was for some other of our
classmates who were being really harassed.
Anyway, we were back in bed and had had a chance to
cool down a little bit before we heard the first
scream. And then we heard the pounding on the door
to wake people up. And then finally one of their
buddies, probably McGee and Heron, got up and went
over there and unjodied
the door for them and let them out. And then all of a
sudden, our door flew open.
Two guys came in there and reached under the covers
and put their hand on our heart to see if we had a high
heartbeat.
They said, Fishery, why is your heart beating so? I
said, oh God, I feel like I'm being raped. What are
you doing in here? Get away from me. At that point, I
guess they had decided that our reaction was real
and we were sleepy enough, we'd had enough
cool-down time, that at that point they didn't
suspect us. But he said, you better find out what
happened tonight and you better make sure it never
happens in your lifetime. And so they went out and I
heard doors opening and they were checking out all
the guys to try to find out who had a fast heartbeat
or clammy skin or something. So we got away with it
and I don't know if they accused somebody else or if
they never found out but we had a couple of
additional sophomore meetings and the next day or
two and folks on the wall and a lot of intimidation
and so forth to try to determine who had done that.
Of course, our answer was, they're not being
informed on the highest degree of accuracy.
Anyway, we got away with that and that also helped
relieve not only our stress and tension but some of
our classmates and actually except for the day or
two aftermath from the incident when they were
really just livid and off the walls, they kind of
calmed down and I kind of suspect that the juniors
and seniors might have talked to them about
whether they had been out of line or not and their
behavior did settle down a little bit. describe
the Babel bombing? The Babel bombing was against
Tom Ralph rest his soul. He died in Vietnam. Thomas
Ralph. He was a really gung-ho guy outspoken and
boisterous. I mean he was well known throughout
both the fish and sophomore. In fact, the whole
community knew him. He was a yell leader his junior
year. Maybe even his, did they have sophomore yell
leaders that year? I don't remember, but he was, I
think, elected a yell leader at his earliest
opportunity and was really gung-ho, but he had a
reputation for harassing the fish that went by his
dorm. He lived over in dorm three and Since I was
studying civil engineering, I had a lot of my
classes over on the northeast corner of the
campus. Now when I use references like east, west,
north, south, I'm using that basically along the
orientation of Highway 6, although I know Highway
6 actually runs northwest and what we call the
northeast corner of the campus was actually due
north. from the central part of the campus. But
anyway, we had a lot of classes over there. So we had
to walk by the dorm. all of the dorms through the
quadrangle. And it seemed like Ralph just made it a
practice of standing out there or walking very
slowly when he was on his way to class in order to
encounter and harass as many freshmen as he could.
And sometimes he was just absolutely unmerciful.
I mean, he was worse than Dabney and Mahan. and it
got to be a topic of conversation among the
freshmen about how mean he was and so one night Earl
and I looked at each other and said Ralph's gone too
far he had harassed some of our guys really badly
and so we got a cherry bomb To make a babbo bomb, you
cut a little slit in the side of the full babbo can.
You insert a cherry bomb, or what do we call it, M80
or something, one of the larger size
firecrackers, and you put it in there where just
the fuse is sticking out. And then onto the fuse you
take a cigarette and put it down so your cigarette
is the slow fuse to give you a chance to get away. And
you light the cigarette, you take several puffs on
it and then put the opposite end on the fuse and then
as the cigarette kind of burns itself down
eventually it will get to the fuse and then the bomb
goes off. and uh so we uh
uh we got everything in place got the cigarette
ready and we actually even had the cigarette lit
before we went into the building because we knew we
would have a lot of time and we didn't want to spend
much time in there now this is what time of night
this is probably about uh maybe two, three o'clock
in the morning when everybody's really sound
asleep and so we slipped over there and slipped
into the building and fortunately Ralph was on the
ground floor right
near the side hallway. These dorms had a central
hallway running the full length that all of the
doors opened off of and then about a quarter or the
third of the way down each of the dorms there was a
side hallway that went out to the side entrance
doors that opened onto the quadrangle and he lived
very near that intersection of one of those side
entrances so that made it also very now if he'd been
on the fourth floor kind of in the middle of the
hallway we might have had second thoughts about it
but once we found knew where he lived we figured it
was worth the risk And so once again we slipped in
and we put the thing kind of out in the room but in
kind of the back corner as far away from their bed as
we could so that the cigarette smoke would have
dissipated a little bit and wouldn't be
something to cause them to wake up and left the
thing kind of on the floor out in the corner. We
wanted it kind of out in the middle of the, a little
bit toward the middle of the room so it would have
maximum effect in distributing the babbo around
the room. And so, you know, once again in this case
we left the door open again to dissipate the
cigarette smoke. we just eased in as a matter of
fact I don't remember which one of us placed it and
which one of us stood guard but all you needed is one
person as a lookout and one person just to go in and
set it down turn around and ease back out and then
escape and we got away and we were We were back in our
dorm. We never even heard the explosion because we
were back in our dorm at the far opposite corner of
the quadrangle. But we heard the next day from our
fish buddies that, hey, y'all here, Tom Ralph got
Babel Obama. Oh, really? Well, can't think of a
more deserving guy. We just played innocent and
never admitted to anyone, at least for several
weeks, that we were the perpetrators. After
those, you say for several weeks, what protected
you after that? What kept the secret from getting
back to him? Well, in the first place, we kind of
hinted, just hinted that we might have, and even at
that, only to other fish. And they never ratted?
And they never ratted. And as a matter of fact, I
don't know to this day whether Ralph ever knew who
had done it. Now, how did you? Like when you're
walking over there in the middle of the night, what
did you wear? How did you carry the Babel bag?
I really don't remember. I suspect we were in gym
gear, probably black if we had it, just so we
wouldn't be all that noticeable. And one of our...
Oh, I know we had like a six pack of beer, and two or
three of the holes in the six pack were already
empty, and although Earl and neither of us really
drank, Earl would have a beer occasionally. I was a
Southern Baptist teetotaler, but we had that. The
Babbo was down in there until we got right over
outside the room and we lit the cigarette and put it
on the fuse. If we got encountered or caught or
anything, we were going to put it down. We were
drunk. We'd been out too late and we were just
staggering back in from the bar. and on our way back
to the dorm so that was going to be our cover story if
we got caught either on our way over or on the way
back but nobody ever saw us. Describe the routine
in your outfit for a fish in the dining room.
We always went over and marched over in formation
until you got just right in front of the door and
then they'd say break and then the fish would stand
fast until all the upperclassmen filed in and then
the fish would file in and you ate family style.
Everybody went in at once and you got to your tables
and they were eight person tables, four people to a
side and the end of the table that was on the main,
either one of the main aisles or one of the feeder
pathway aisles, the two fish sat on the end of the
table that was called the hot corner because
that's where the waiter brought all the food and
then the fish then would distribute the bowls and
platters of food and then of course the seniors
always took theirs first and then it went to the
juniors and then to the sophomores and then to the
fish and
course the fish had to sit at attention to keep the
back straight we didn't eat square meals but we did
you know you had to answer all of any questions that
they ask and you had to respond any kind of services
or favors you had to respond and and and then if you
if there's any time left then you got a little
chance to eat and then they had cush questions and
cush was dessert and uh... what were some of your
favorite cush questions that you remember i
really don't remember any usually it had to do with
campusology uh... like uh... you know who stormed
the beaches at normandy or were the cush questions
in your outfit factual yes sometimes it had to do
with current events Sometimes it had to do with
campusology, stuff that you're supposed to know
anyway. So if you knew the answer. If you knew the
answer, then you qualified for your dessert. And
if you didn't, sometimes they'd give you a second
or third chance either to embarrass yourself or to
qualify for desserts. Occasionally, I don't
specifically remember ever not qualifying for
dessert, but I remember some of my fish buddies did
occasionally. Did they attempt to teach you all
the chow hall slang, or did you just pick it up? No,
it was mandatory. You had to learn it. That was part
of the campusology. Did you ever, when you got
home, forget?
Not any of the inappropriate words for mixed
company, but I did. deal for bread and sky for water
and all the other different things. Occasionally
I'd use one of those. I remember one time I did it at
home and I did it premeditated. It wasn't
unintentional just to see the reaction on my dad's
face. He just kind of looked up and kind of grinned.
Mom said, what's that? What's that mean? I said, I
don't know. I forget dad what does that mean he told
her. Did you all do any pranks in the dining room?
Occasionally but I don't remember well I do
remember one deal fight that's where you take the
rolls or bread and wad it up and then throw it at
other units and usually there'd be maybe a
vendetta between two units or maybe the unit that
had just won the General Moore trophy or had won the
graded March pass the week before if they were real
arrogant and cocky and smug and overbearing about
having won and about being the best and being
number one. Sometimes it would be everybody
against them, and everybody would just throw
everything in their direction. But y'all didn't
play any pranks on the upperclassmen with their
food?
Not that I recall. We may have, and I might react if I
heard some incidents, but I don't recall any off
the top of my head. What was your favorite and least
favorite Aggie foods?
I kind of liked it all. I was not a gourmet or fussy
eater. I eat to live. I don't live to eat. So I always
found it good, and I always thought when people
complained about the food, they just needed
something to complain about. Was there plenty of
it? Yes.
What was special about your outfit, friendships,
and what did it take pride in?
I
don't know, that doesn't really trigger
anything. We
always were good but rarely ever number one. We
were always somewhere in the top four or five or
six.
but we never could maybe occasionally we'd get a
number two but maybe on a particular weekend march
or something or a particular graded march by it
seemed like every Thursday evening they'd have a
graded march by where you'd form up you'd go down
the quadrangle and then march in and there was a
reviewing stand and graders
before you got to the Duncan Dining Hall. We may
have occasionally won one of those, but we never
won a General Moore or any of the big trophies. So
mostly we concentrated on individual
events and activities, and I spent most of my spare
time over at the MSC. I got involved in Memorial
Student Center activities. How did that begin? Do
you remember? Well, it began with the freshman
orientation, the reception for the college
president over at TMSC. And as I recall, was
Williams the one that immediately preceded
Rutter? David Morgan. Morgan, okay, David
Morgan, okay. I believe he was president there and
this was probably in September or October it was
early in the school year probably was in September
where they had the MSC host the fish reception
President and Mrs. Morgan. So I went over there and
following the reception all the different MSC
committees had sign up places and display booths
about what they did. That's where I learned about
Town Hall and SCONA and great issues and the music
committee and the camera committee and all the
different things that you could do as a form of
extracurricular activities and leadership and
the great issues committee attracted my
attention and so I went to the MSC pretty often for
one thing it it you escaped a lot of the harassment
over in the around the quadrangle and even though I
had been a competitive athlete in in high school I
knew I was too small and really wasn't all that
good. I had lettered twice in football and three
times in baseball and twice in basketball and once
in golf, but I just didn't feel like I was going to be
competitive enough to try that at collegiate
level so and I did participate some with our outfit
and intramural activities but I spent most of my
time at the MSC just because I was more attracted to
that and
so I ended up being on the great issues committee
How soon before you met Wayne Stark? Did you know
who he was? Yes, I met him pretty early. In fact, the
very first meeting that I went to the Great Issues
Committee, he was an advisor to the Great Issues
Committee. Of course, he was like an ex-officio
advisor to all of the committees and could sit in on
any of the meetings anytime he wanted, but he
delegated some of that. the really important ones
where you're bringing international and
nationally known visitors in like the SCONA and
great issues and town hall he was almost always
present for those committee meetings along with
one or two other faculty or former student
advisors and I do remember being told several
times at that first committee meeting to relax and
participate because I was still a little nervous
and tense and whenever there are upperclassmen
around you naturally defer and are a little bit
reticent to get in and yet in that setting that's
different from the regimentation of the cadet
corps even though they're cadets also. But I
remember being encouraged several times to relax
and join in and speak up and so I did, made several
suggestions and then they needed somebody to
write the invitations to the candidates that we
had brainstormed, folks who wanted to come to the
campus and so I don't remember if I volunteered or
if they asked me to do it and in fact it probably was a
two or three person subcommittee to do that but I
ended up drafting the letters and sending the
letters out to attract the speakers and
was pretty successful at that. I
can't remember if it was my freshman year or my
sophomore year. It must have been my sophomore
year. We had gotten to a place where were coming up
on the Christmas holidays and we still had one key
speaker due in the spring that we had not filled. We
had asked Dr. Paul Seifel who was a physicist who
did earth crust studies and had been North Pole,
South Pole and I guess studied the tectonic plate
movements and so forth. and we wanted him to be one
of the speakers, but we hadn't heard anything from
him, either yes or no. And so that was one of the
occasions for a visit to the green couch. I think my
sophomore year I was vice chairman of the great
issues, and I supervised the scheduling and the
inviting of the guests. And so Wayne had me over
there, Mr. Stark. It was in very recent years that I
felt like calling him Wayne because all those
years, even for years after I graduated, he was
always Mr. Stark. But anyway, he called me in and
asked when we expected to hear. I said, well, I
think we've done all we can. And he concurred. And
so he picked up his phone. and he dialed and I could
tell from the dial it was long distance and he just
said hi so and so and called somebody by name he said
is Tiger in and I was thinking who in the world is
Tiger and the thought crossed my mind I know the
congressman from this area is named Tiger Teague
Olin Teague was nicknamed Tiger and
I thought gee could it be him you know now and he's
really going to high places I mean I was really
impressed if he's going to try to get him to help us
get a speaker confirmed and so he
said we need some help he said I'm sitting here with
one of the student leaders and we're and we need to
ask you a favor and then he reached over and he
punched the speaker phone and he introduced me to
Tiger Teague over the speaker phone and then he
said
James or Cadet Ray or whatever he called me at the
time he said he's got a favor he needs to ask of you
and I thought moi and so I kind of stumbled through
it and told him what we needed and he said well let me
see if I can call him and encourage him to give y'all
a positive answer and so sure enough before we left
for Christmas break we had a letter from Dr. Seiple
saying he'd be glad to come speak to the great issue
series so the MSC was a broadening place but it was
also an escape place wasn't it yes and my initial
attraction was the escape Well, I'll say maybe
60-40 escape and 40%. I really enjoyed it and
wanted to be involved in that kind of thing. But
then after three or four meetings, I mean it was
60-40 the other way and then 70, 80, 90, 100% and the
escape didn't mean that much to me anymore because
as you went along, if you were pretty, if you were
reasonably competent in your marching your
formations and your room inspections and kept up
with things with your outfit gradually the the
harassment or the training the encouragement the
motivation you know kind of died down and
especially if your grades were good and you were
involved in other activities a lot of times you
could use that as an excuse you know if some
sophomore wanted to stop you and have you whip out
to ten of his buddies and harassing you could say
legitimately excuse me sir I'm I'm going to be late
to a class or I'm going to be late to a meeting over at
the MSC and most of the time they would honor that
and especially if they had no sense that you were
abusing it and Fish occasionally might abuse that
if they were trying to get out of trouble but most of
the time it was legit and so that usually you could
do whatever you needed to do and I got to where I
enjoyed that and that was more my contribution to
the campus and to the outfit because they also
liked each outfit got some points I don't know for
for student participation leadership
participation in various activities and so that
was encouraged occasionally might get a sourpuss
sophomore or junior that was uh maybe getting a
little bit jealous of your notoriety and and they
might harass you a little bit about it but most of
the time it was all positive. What did you learn
from those MSC activities and particularly from
Wayne Stark? for your future? Well, horizon
broadening, the willingness to or being ready and
confident that if you've got a chance to take part
in a big enterprise to do it because that's a...